# Glowing Green: A Quantitative Analysis of Photoluminescence in Six North American Bat Species
Briana J. Roberson, Santiago Perea, Daniel DeRose-Broeckert, Steven B. Castleberry. 2025. Ecology and Evolution. https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.71885

ABSTRACT
Photoluminescence produced by excitation with ultraviolet light has been documented in an increasing number of nocturnal–crepuscular mammal species. Here, we provide a quantitative analysis to confirm visual observations of UV-induced photoluminescence in six North American bat species. We used museum specimens to examine wavelength at peak photoluminescent emission, within and among species. We observed green photoluminescence on the wings, uropatagium, and hind limbs of all 60 museum specimens examined. Spectral scans revealed a consistent emission peak between 520 and 552 nm corresponding to the observed green color. We found no differences in wavelength between species or sexes. Wavelength was not related to specimen age, supporting the use of museum specimens for detection of photoluminescence. Our results suggest the potential for photoluminescence to be homologous in origin among the species we examined. We emphasize the need for further exploration into potential evolutionary and functional roles of photoluminescence across mammalian taxa.

DATA
We examined female and male adult museum specimens of big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus), eastern red bats (Lasiurus borealis), Seminole bats (Lasiurus seminolus), southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius), gray bats (Myotis grisescens), and Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) from the Georgia Museum of Natural History (GMNH; Athens, Georgia, USA) mammal collections. Most specimens were collected in Georgia, USA, but collection localities ranged geographically across the United States, including South Carolina, Tennessee, Illinois, and California. Specimens ranged from 22 to 103 years since collection (Table S1).

We first visibly observed specimens for the presence of photoluminescence under 410 nm ultraviolet light with an emission spectrum ranging from 395 nm to 425 nm (±15 nm full width half maximum) using a yellow UV-filtering lens (Circus, New York, USA, and LPSAFP, Amazon, China) to reduce visual noise from UV and blue light. We photographed specimens in a dark box using a Nikon D5600 camera with an AF-P NIKKOR 18–55 mm lens (Nikon, Melville, New York, USA). For comparison, photographs were taken under only UV light and through the UV-filtering lens. In addition, we used a MIDOPT LP470 yellow longpass filter (Midwest Optical Systems Inc., Palatine, Illinois, USA) to completely filter out incident light under 470 nm and photograph photoluminescent emission color objectively without influence from ultraviolet and blue wavelengths. Specimen photos were digitized with a black background for visualization.

MEASUREMENTS
We quantified specimen photoluminescent emission spectra with an ILT950 spectroradiometer (International Light Technologies, Peabody, Massachusetts, USA), which has a wavelength accuracy of ±0.5 nm, using an integration time of 4000 ms. The probe was positioned 10 mm over the ventral surface of the uropatagium, which was the body region with the greatest area of visually observed photoluminescence available to scan. Intensity of light was recorded as irradiance (μW/cm2). To account for confounding light in the dark room and to isolate photoluminescent emission from the UV light, we recorded initial scans with no light present and reference scans of the UV light before specimen scans, using an A253 diffuse reflectance standard reference panel (International Light Technologies, Peabody, Massachusetts, USA). We scanned each specimen once and subtracted dark scans and reference scans from specimen scans using the following formula to ensure analyses only included light produced by specimens.
 
We then processed scans to identify the wavelength value at the emission peak for each specimen. We assessed variation in mechanical peak wavelength detection by calculating the standard deviation of peak wavelength values from 5 duplicate scans taken from the same location on a single specimen.

CODE AND ANALYSIS
All analyses, scans, and data processing were conducted in R version 4.4.1 (R Core Team 2023). We examined specimen emission spectra for inter-and intraspecific (between sexes) differences in wavelength (nm) at the emission peak (hereafter ‘peak wavelength’). We performed a Shapiro–Wilk test for normality and found that response variables were not normally distributed. Therefore, we used Kruskal–Wallis non-parametric tests to determine if peak wavelength differed among species and between males and females.

To determine if specimen age influenced scan results, we compared a model with specimen age since collection as a predictor variable to a null model with only an intercept term (no trend term) with generalized linear models (GLMs) using the stats R package. We initially conducted the analysis for each species and detected no differences. Therefore, we combined all specimens examined for the final analysis. We used a gamma distribution because the response variable was continuous and not normally distributed. Models were compared using Akaike's information criterion (AIC) with a threshold of ≥ 2 units to determine if the age-predictor model differed in fit from the null model (Burnham and Anderson 2003).
